_drafts/2020-02-17-grid-list.md, before:

---
layout:     post
title:      Implementing a level selector grid
date:       2020-02-17
author:     Tamás Losonczi
categories: Unity3D
tags:
 - unity
 - ui
---

# Implementing a level selector grid

## First attempt
The simplest version uses `ScrollView` UI element combined with a `ContentSizeFitter` and a `GridLayoutGroup` component. 
Since I wanted to replicate a level selector grid I applied the following configs.
I set the _Vertical Fit_ parameter to _Min Size_ so the content expands according to the number of elements.

_image_

Additionally there are two custom scripts: `LevelSelector.cs` and `LevelSelectorItem.cs`, along with a corresponding LevelSelectorItem prefab, which features a Text, a Button, and an Image component.

```
    public class LevelSelector : MonoBehaviour
    {
        [SerializeField] private LevelSelectorItem _selectorItemPrefab;
        [SerializeField] private RectTransform _content;

        private List<ItemData> _items = new List<ItemData>();

        public class ItemData
        {
            public readonly Action<ItemData> onClick;
            public readonly string levelText;

            public ItemData(Action<ItemData> onClick, string levelText)
            {
                this.onClick = onClick;
                this.levelText = levelText;
            }
        }

        private void Clear()
        {
            _items.Clear();
            foreach (Transform child in _content.transform)
            {
                Destroy(child.gameObject);
            }
        }

        public void SetItems(List<ItemData> itemsToAdd)
        {
            _items.AddRange(itemsToAdd);
            foreach (var item in _items)
            {
                Instantiate(_selectorItemPrefab, _content.transform).Init(item);
            }
        }

        private void OnDestroy()
        {
            Clear();
        }
    }
```

```
    public class LevelSelectorItem : MonoBehaviour
    {
        [SerializeField] private Text _text;
        [SerializeField] private Button _button;
        
        private LevelSelector.ItemData _data;
                
        public void Init(LevelSelector.ItemData data)
        {
            _data = data;
            _text.text = data.levelText;
        }

        private void OnEnable()
        {
            _button.onClick.AddListener(HandleClick);
        }

        private void OnDisable()
        {
            _button.onClick.RemoveListener(HandleClick);
        }

        private void HandleClick()
        {
            _data?.onClick.Invoke(_data);
        }
    }
```

In some cases this is fine, for example when you know that the number of items will be relatively small and you won't make changes frequently in the data.

## Some common pitfalls & issues
- Wrong item gets selected in the grid.
  - This happens when the child is taking more size then specified cell size in the `Grid Layout Group`
- Removal of items is error-prone and not performant.
  - For example you may want to first clear, then add new items to the grid. Hooever, since `Destroy()` is not called instantaneously but after the current Update loop, the newly added items will be also destroyed.
- Large number of items are not handled efficently.
  - Items are destroyed and created each time.
- Child elements are not rendered even though they are added to the content?

## Improvements

## Relevant notes
- Create canvas
- Add Scroll View object
  - It's window that you can scroll up and down
  - Removing the horizontal Scroll ()
- Use the rect transform tool to modify in the scene view.
- Viewport/Content item
  - This is what is being scrolled.
  - We want to use a fixed size based on the elements in the grid.
- Add Grid layout group component to Content
  - Cell size defines the size of elements
  - Vertical fit to min size.
- Add content size fitter
  - This components makes more room if needed (when items are populated as children).
  - PopulateGrid script which creates items randomly.
- Create a dummy item prefab (an image)

Commit message:

[content] grid list draft WIP

_drafts/2020-02-17-grid-list.md, after:

---
layout:     post
title:      Implementing a level selector grid
date:       2020-02-17
author:     Tamás Losonczi
categories: Unity3D
tags:
 - unity
 - ui
---

# Implementing a level selector grid

## First version
The simplest version uses `ScrollView` UI element combined with a `ContentSizeFitter` and a `GridLayoutGroup` component. 
Since I wanted to replicate a level selector grid I applied the following configs.
I set the _Vertical Fit_ parameter to _Min Size_ so the content expands according to the number of elements.

_image_

Additionally there are two custom scripts: `LevelSelector.cs` and `LevelSelectorItem.cs`, along with a corresponding LevelSelectorItem prefab, which features a Text, a Button, and an Image component.

```
    public class LevelSelector : MonoBehaviour
    {
        [SerializeField] private LevelSelectorItem _selectorItemPrefab;
        [SerializeField] private RectTransform _content;

        private List<ItemData> _items = new List<ItemData>();

        public class ItemData
        {
            public readonly Action<ItemData> onClick;
            public readonly string levelText;

            public ItemData(Action<ItemData> onClick, string levelText)
            {
                this.onClick = onClick;
                this.levelText = levelText;
            }
        }

        private void Clear()
        {
            _items.Clear();
            foreach (Transform child in _content.transform)
            {
                Destroy(child.gameObject);
            }
        }

        public void SetItems(List<ItemData> itemsToAdd)
        {
            _items.AddRange(itemsToAdd);
            foreach (var item in _items)
            {
                Instantiate(_selectorItemPrefab, _content.transform).Init(item);
            }
        }

        private void OnDestroy()
        {
            Clear();
        }
    }
```

```
    public class LevelSelectorItem : MonoBehaviour
    {
        [SerializeField] private Text _text;
        [SerializeField] private Button _button;
        
        private LevelSelector.ItemData _data;
                
        public void Init(LevelSelector.ItemData data)
        {
            _data = data;
            _text.text = data.levelText;
        }

        private void OnEnable()
        {
            _button.onClick.AddListener(HandleClick);
        }

        private void OnDisable()
        {
            _button.onClick.RemoveListener(HandleClick);
        }

        private void HandleClick()
        {
            _data?.onClick.Invoke(_data);
        }
    }
```

In some cases this is fine, for example when you know that the number of items will be relatively small and you won't make changes frequently in the data.

## Some common pitfalls & potential issues
- Wrong item gets selected in the grid.
  - This happens when the child is taking more size then specified cell size in the `Grid Layout Group`
- Removal of items is error-prone and not performant.
  - For example you may want to first clear, then add new items to the grid. However, since `Destroy()` is not called instantaneously but after the current Update loop, the newly added items will be also destroyed.
- Large number of items are not handled efficently.
  - Items are destroyed and created each time.
- Harder to identify which item gets selected (one string field may not be sufficient to differentiate an item from the rest)

## Second version
To tackle the unneccesary creation and destroyal of objects we could use a pool which buffers and returns object on demand.

```
Pool
```

Make sure you set the scale explicty because parenting and unparenting can mess up the scaling.



## Relevant notes
- Create canvas
- Add Scroll View objectu
  - It's window that you can scroll up and down
  - Removing the horizontal Scroll ()
- Use the rect transform tool to modify in the scene view.
- Viewport/Content item
  - This is what is being scrolled.
  - We want to use a fixed size based on the elements in the grid.
- Add Grid layout group component to Content
  - Cell size defines the size of elements
  - Vertical fit to min size.
- Add content size fitter
  - This components makes more room if needed (when items are populated as children).
  - PopulateGrid script which creates items randomly.
- Create a dummy item prefab (an image)
