---
layout:     post
title:      Implementing a level selector grid
date:       2020-02-17
author:     Tamás Losonczi
categories: Unity3D
tags:
 - unity
 - ui
---

# Implementing a level selector grid

## First attempt
The simplest version uses `ScrollView` UI element combined with a `ContentSizeFitter` and a `GridLayoutGroup` component. 
Since I wanted to replicate a level selector grid I applied the following configs.

_image_

Additionally there are two custom scripts: `LevelSelector.cs` and `LevelSelectorItem.cs`, along with a corresponding LevelSelectorItem prefab, which features a Text, a Button, and an Image component.

```
LevelSelector.cs
```

```
LevelSelectorItem.cs
```

In some cases this is fine, for example when you know that the number of items will be relatively small and you won't make changes frequently in the data.

## Pitfalls & issues
- Item click is not correct in some cases.
- Removal of items is error-prone and not performant.
- Large number of items are not handl

## Improvements

## Relevant notes
- Create canvas
- Add Scroll View object
  - It's window that you can scroll up and down
  - Removing the horizontal Scroll ()
- Use the rect transform tool to modify in the scene view.
- Viewport/Content item
  - This is what is being scrolled.
  - We want to use a fixed size based on the elements in the grid.
- Add Grid layout group component to Content
  - Cell size defines the size of elements
  - Vertical fit to min size.
- Add content size fitter
  - This components makes more room if needed (when items are populated as children).
  - PopulateGrid script which creates items randomly.
- Create a dummy item prefab (an image)
